[SOUMA] This world is one
of magic and inhabited by
unusual creatures.
If you feel like flying,
you can always
hop on a wyvern's back.
Large, domesticated beasts
pull the wagons.
And mighty sea dragons provide
the power for steel battleships.
There are no lightbulbs,
but the streets
are illuminated at
night by lamps filled
with glowing moss.
Cooking is done using
fire‐based magic
on wood‐burning ovens.
Even though there's
no hard science here,
day‐to‐day jobs are
accomplished through
the power of magic.
However, once you strip
away the mystical
and fantastical elements,
it's a country with a
rudimentary level of technology.
The industrial revolution
is years off,
and the feudal system
is still in full swing.
Now, I'm a part of it.
The king of this country.
A magic check?
Yes, sire. After consorting
various tomes regarding
the ritual, there appear
to be instances of heroes
being imparted with magical
abilities after they've been
transported from other worlds.
Got it. So basically, it's like
a test to see if I have
any newfound abilities
which may end up
proving useful.
All I have to do is
touch this statue?
Yes.
If any magic was
transferred to you during
the summoning, its nature
will become apparent
to you once you make
contact with the stone.
I don't know who
came up with this,
but I love how
straightforward it is.
How did it go, my king?
I never thought I'd
say these words,
but apparently I'm
a magic wielder now.
[CHIEF PRIEST]
Ah.
The question is what sorta
practical applications
does this power have?
[LISCIA]
Souma? I'm coming in.
[LISCIA gasps]
[LISCIA]
What is going on?
[SOUMA]
Liscia. Good. You're here.
[LISCIA]
Looks like everything's handled.
You're using magic to
move those pens, right?
Turns out I've found
a good use for it.
Since I'm able to copy
my consciousness
onto inanimate objects
and control them,
I figured I might as
well get some extra
work done around here.
[SOUMA]
Uh‐‐ What I mean is...
I'm not actually moving
the pens, per se.
They're an extension
of my mind but writing
on their own.
Since I came up with
the technique,
it's only fitting I name it.
I call this
Living Poltergeists.
[chuckles] A bit chunibyo
of me, huh?
I don't know what a
chuni‐whatever is,
but that is one weird ability.
I guess.
Moving three objects is
the most I can manage
at this point.
And it seems like they
have to be close to me
in order to work.
Very handy, though.
It's like copying myself
and being able to work
on multiple tasks
simultaneously.
In short...
Well, go on.
Super‐convenient for
doing paperwork.
So, yeah, my newfound
power's making
certain tasks easier.
Without it, you'd probably
find me buried
underneath a mountain
of paper in here. Heh...
[LISCIA sighs]
Even with your extra
help, it looks like
you're barely avoiding a
bureaucratic avalanche.
Just what sort of work
are you doing, by the way?
Let's say we're digging
for buried treasure.
Buried treasure?
[SOUMA] More precisely,
we're tracking down
unaccounted‐for expenditures.
We take the budgetary
requests then look at
the financial statements.
Even though the amount
requested and spent
may seem to be a perfect match,
the itemized expenses will
sometimes be different.
That can indicate two things:
first, wasteful spending in
order to use up the budget.
Or two, misappropriation
of funds disguised
as an investment.
We are pouring over
every request form
the kingdom has received
and keeping an eye out
for any glaring discrepancies.
If any embezzlement
is discovered,
the guilty party will pay
the amount back,
and if they refuse,
they'll be arrested
and their
property seized.
Is it necessary to go
to such lengths?
After all, you solved
our financial woes
by selling the national
treasures and paying the empire.
Sure. For now.
At least I don't have
to worry about being
turned over to the
empire anymore.
Still, if we want this country
to get back on track,
we can never have
enough capital.
Same goes for manpower.
[ALBERT]
Hmm.
I can't help but wonder
if Souma and Liscia
are getting along.
[ELISHA]
Knowing the two of them,
I'm sure they're
doing just fine.
You think so, dear?
Yes, you're right.
What time do you have?
Uh, it's morning already.
Wha‐‐ Morning?
How long have you
been standing there?
Not very long.
Maybe less than a minute.
[LISCIA]
Wh‐What were you‐‐
You looked comfortable.
Just wanted to make
sure you slept well.
Anyway, the paperwork's
all wrapped up,
if you wanted to nap
a little while longer.
I'm rested.
Don't tell me you never stopped.
By the looks of it, you've
haven't slept in ages.
I was planning on catching
a few winks later,
but in the meantime,
would you care to join me?
This minute?
Yeah.
If you don't mind,
I have something
I want to show you.
[LISCIA]
Easy!
It's not like you have to
hold onto my waist so tight.
Sorry, but this is
pretty scary for me.
Some hero you are.
Traditionally, the man
should be up front
holding the horse's reins.
I can't help it.
This is my first time
riding on a horse.
You're joking.
We get around other ways
back where I come from.
We travel using machines
and don't rely on animals.
Sounds like quite the place.
Souma, tell me something.
[SOUMA]
Hm? What is it?
[LISCIA] The place
you're originally from,
do you have family there
waiting for you to return?
Or, you know. Friends.
Girlfriends.
Anything like that.
There's no one.
My grandpa was the
last of my relatives,
and he passed away
before I came here.
Sorry to ask.
[SOUMA]
No reason to apologize.
My grandfather
lived a full life.
Basically, there's no one
waiting for me to return.
I guess I'm in no hurry to
go back right away, either.
Uh‐huh. I see.
You can stop here.
Pretty how the morning
dew makes it glisten.
You think so?
I mean, the whole reason
you brought me out here
was so we could
look at it, right?
In a way.
You can't eat scenery,
though, and that's why
we're experiencing
a food shortage.
[LISCIA]
Eating scenery?
What are you getting at?
[SOUMA]
It's pretty simple.
As far as the eye can see,
there're nothing
but cotton fields.
[LISCIA] Ah. And they can't be
harvested for consumption.
[SOUMA]
Getting right to the point.
The reason this country
has a food shortage
is because there are
too many of these fields.
[LISCIA]
Meaning?
[SOUMA] It started with
the Demon Lord's Domain.
The countries north of
here used to produce
a lot more cotton,
but damage caused by
the monster attacks
forced production to cease.
Speaking of, in this world,
the further north you travel,
the warmer it gets.
Does it work differently
where you come from?
[SOUMA] Actually, the
weather's the opposite.
Anyway, that's beside the point.
Supplies dropped,
and the purchase price
of cotton shot up,
leading this country
to change course.
At the time, you wanted
to produce and sell
as much cotton as possible.
And in turn, the farmers
stopped growing food.
A crop you can't eat and
is grown solely for market
is commonly referred
to as a cash crop.
There's a drawback
when you devote
your entire agricultural
system to growing them.
It leads to a sharp decline
in food self‐sufficiency.
Which explains the
current food shortage.
Sort of.
You can always import
crops from other countries
if supplies aren't adequate.
You're right.
Not to mention, cotton
sells for a higher price.
We could use the
money to purchase food
from elsewhere.
[SOUMA]
Yes. Just one problem.
Cotton prices have
considerably fallen.
There was profit to be made.
So other countries
realized this and rushed
to produce cotton.
As a result, the global
supply far exceeded
the demand.
And now, the cash crop
this kingdom had been
relying heavily on is
practically worthless.
[LISCIA] Meaning less funds to
import fruits and vegetables
from other countries.
And since we're importing
less these days,
the cost of domestically
grown foods
have continued skyrocketing.
The most vulnerable
classes are the people
who've suffered the most.
Just one of the numerous
hardships that's undermining
this country's progress.
I had no idea.
[I was ignorant of
my country's suffering.
It's people.
As a royal,
I'm an utter failure.
Don't talk like that.
Hey. Nobody said that leading
a kingdom would be easy.
Wait, "leading'?
Then the reason you brought
me out here was because...
Yeah.
Someday, Liscia, you'll
be the ruler of Elfrieden.
What I want, most of all,
is to leave you
with every tool you'll
need to succeed.
So after I've gone back home,
you'll be able to manage
all facets of this country.
The first step is to limit the
acreage for cash crops
and start planting food again,
so we end the shortage
and no longer have to be
as dependent on other countries.
The kingdom will provide
farmer subsidies
to support the changeover.
Also, we need to prioritize
planting soybeans and potatoes.
They have a variety of
uses and also can survive
harsh weather.
Liscia, you listening?
Mm‐hmm.
I was paying attention.
It's not like agricultural
reforms just happen overnight.
For the time being, no matter
whether all the food
was imported or
domestically produced,
the kingdom will purchase it,
and sell the goods
for less than we
bought them for.
Sounds like that's going to
leave us in even more debt.
Uh‐huh. And I'd like us to make
up the deficit with our exports.
But given the current
market value,
we will need to find a new
cash cow that isn't cotton.
Easier said than done.
I'm going off topic for
a second here. But...
...the king isn't exactly
supposed to be eating
in the mess hall.
Don't worry about it.
We're busy
economizing the castle.
We have to conserve
meal expenses.
Yeah, but still.
[LUDWIN]
It's been some time, Princess.
Or rather, should I refer
to you as Queen Liscia
‐‐from now on?
‐‐Nothing's official!
Not yet at least.
Souma, this is Sir Ludwin Arcs.
He's the captain
of the Royal Guard.
[LUDWIN chuckles]
It's Souma Kazuya.
I'm sort of the country's
acting king at the moment.
You've made quite
the impression.
Only recently taken over and
already your job performance
is the talk of the staff.
Next time you see them,
pass along a message:
if they have time to chit‐chat,
they should be working harder.
[LUDWIN chuckles]
Understood, sire.
If I'm not intruding, may
I join you for breakfast?
[SOUMA]
Fine by me.
[LUDWIN] As long as I'm here,
might I ask you a question?
I'll try and do my
best to answer it.
I hear you're attempting to
carry out many reforms.
They proceeding smoothly?
The opposite of smooth,
to be honest.
Human resources are
a bit problematic.
None of the officials
are of any use.
Other than Prime Minister Marx.
[sneezes]
Besides the crown,
I also received the king's
senior advisors.
To be perfectly blunt,
these are the same officials
who let the kingdom
nearly fall into ruin.
[LUDWIN]
My ears are burning.
[LISCIA]
Now, hold on, Souma.
Where are the people
who can tell me the truth,
give me straight answers,
and agree to complete
whatever tasks I assign them?
Those are the sort
of retainers I need.
[LISCIA] You want to use
the Gemstone Broadcast
to recruit people?
Yeah.
If I have this right, the
Gemstone Broadcast
can reach across
the entire kingdom?
[LISCIA]
Uh... Yes.
As long as the reception
environment's setup correctly,
whatever is said in the
castle's Gemstone Room
will be heard across the nation,
no matter how far away
someone is from us.
Then it's perfect for letting
everyone know our situation.
Ordinarily, it's only
used for the king's
New Year's greetings
or to issue important
proclamations and like orders.
This will be the first time it's
used for job recruitment.
How does hiring around
here usually work?
Well, let's see.
We look at all personal
connections or hold
a written exam and
recruit those who manage
to pass successfully.
That sounds pretty biased,
don't you think?
Also, what's the country's
literacy rate currently?
Half the population can read.
If I had to guess,
about 30% can write.
What?! That's a terrible figure!
You can't decide if
someone's right for the job
using just two criteria!
Especially when you're
excluding 70% percent
of applicants before
they can even interview!
How many diamonds
in the rough could be
left undiscovered?
I don't know how to answer that.
No worries. Once the financial
situation stabilizes,
we can solve other
issues as time permits.
But first up, we have to start
recruiting capable people.
And how are you going
to encourage them
to step forward?
I've been mulling over
what I plan to say.
But I'm just going to
end up paraphrasing
a hero I respect,
since they said it best.
Another hero?
That's right.
An unscrupulous hero
of chaotic times.
[NARRATOR]
During the late Han Dynasty,
Tsao Tsao, the man
responsible for laying
the foundation for Wei during
the Three Kingdoms period,
was so dedicated to
gathering men of ability
under his command,
some describe him
as a man possessed.
In the year 210, to meet
the demand for talent,
he issued his famous
"Order of Seeking Talents."
Within it, there were passages
that have been spoken
for generations since.
Including this one:
If you possess a skill,
we can use it!
[MAN A] Is that supposed
to be our new king?
[WOMAN A]
He looks so young.
My people. We need your help.
This country is facing a crisis.
Between the chronic food
shortages, the depression,
and an influx of refugees
whose lands have fallen
to the Demon Lord's Domain,
the Kingdom of Elfrieden is
facing several afflictions.
Additionally, our neighboring
countries are watching us
with eager eyes and are
more than ready to pounce!
Realizing the severity
of the situation,
your former king determined
he was not up to the task,
and entrusted me to
handle these affairs.
True, if we were living
during a time of peace,
there is no doubt he would have
made an effective leader.
However, we live in
an age of upheaval.
During strife, you need
a king who is tenacious.
Someone who acts
less like a saint
and more like a survivor.
To the point, a ruler who's
able to keep your families
and property safe from
harm befalling them,
domestic or foreign.
That is why your former king
chose me to succeed him!
I would never speak ill
of your previous ruler,
but in terms of resolve,
I have the clear advantage.
Presently, I'm spearheading
a number of reforms.
However, we are
overwhelmingly shorthanded
for the tasks ahead.
That's why I'm here.
To recruit anyone with
a talent that will aid
the kingdom.
What we require during
these troubling times
are not those who excel
in peacetime matters,
but individuals who can
revolutionize this country.
As for the talent,
it can take many forms.
If you can claim with
confidence you are the best
at what you do, come
and stand before me!
It doesn't matter
your education or age,
your social status, place of
origin, ethnicity, or gender.
You can't read or write?
No problem.
I don't care about
your connections.
How attractive you are.
Or the number of
skeletons in your closet.
As long as you can say
confidently you're the best
at what you do and
there's no one else
in the country who
even comes close!
If you believe that with
all your heart, I say:
Come forward and
present yourself!
I know some out
there are hesitant,
wondering if their talent
will be of any use
to the kingdom.
However, that is ultimately
for your king to decide,
not you.
The determination whether
or not this country
needs your specific expertise
begins and ends with me.
I don't care if others have
labeled your talent worthless.
What're you waiting for?
If your ability is determined
to be an asset
to this country's future,
I will afford you every
courtesy and look to you
as my newest advisor.
But perhaps there are some
out there who are still unsure.
Come demonstrate a talent
that is unmatched
by any other in the kingdom,
and as King of Elfrieden,
I will issue you a Certificate
of Peerlessness‐‐
and a monetary reward!
[CITIZENS gasp]
Would that provide you
with some incentive?
If so, let me hear you!
[CITIZENS cheer]
[SOUMA] You may recommend
yourself or someone else.
If the candidate's
another person,
you will receive 30%
of the reward.
During these trying times,
it'll be up to you
to bring forth those who
otherwise would not
step forward!
Also, if your talent is
being the strongest one
in the room,
the best singer
or something similar,
candidates will compete with
each other ahead of time,
and the top delegate in each
category will be selected,
so do bear that in mind.
Those of you who
possess an aptitude...
I'll see you at Parnam,
so we may shake hands!
[CITIZENS cheer]
[LISCIA]
What was that bit at the end?
[SOUMA]
You thought it was too much?
Just a touch.
[SOUMA]
I hope it worked.
We'll need all the
help we can get.
You're sure there's nothing
that will change your mind?
It's made up, Father.